This video we'll go over the steps necessary to install the command line tools which includes the C++
compiler on the Mac OS 10 platform in order to do this we need to have a terminal window.
So let's go over to spotlight's search and type in terminal and we'll get a terminal window running
at this point.
We want to type X code dash select dash dash install
and press enter.
If you get a dialog box that pops up as I do that means that the command line tools and the compiler
are not currently installed.
If you get a message saying that they are currently installed then you're done and you can move on to
installing the Integrated Development Environment.
In this case I have the choice of installing the full X code integrated development environment or simply
install the command line tools.
I'm only going to install the command line tools which again includes the compiler.
So select install all agree to the license agreement
and that software will be downloaded and installed.
It's a pretty quick process.
After a few minutes you'll see a message saying the software was installed and the installation is complete.
You can test out the installation by simply typing G plus plus dash dash version at the terminal and
you'll see the version number of the C++ compiler.
Which means it's all set.
And good to go at this point you'll keep the command line tools up to date through the App Store so
you could select AppStore
updates and you can see your command line tool update to appear here.
Right now I've got no updates available because I just installed the latest.
That's it.
We've installed the command line tools our compilers are all set up and we're good to go.
The next step is to install the Integrated Development Environment.